♪
TROI:
Jack, your truth--
it's behind that door.
BEVERLY'S VOICE:
Find me.
BORG COLLECTIVE:
We are Borg.
BEVERLY:
The Borg passed organic
technology on to Jack.
Through Locutus.
You son appears
to send instructions.
Jack, don't do this.
FEMALE VOICE:
Welcome home, Jack.
Resistance is futile.
SHELBY: We gather
on Frontier Day to demonstrate
our newest advancement:
Fleet Formation.
Synchronistic technology
that allows
every ship in Starfleet
to operate as one.
Sirs, the fleet is trying
to commandeer our systems.
They've implemented portions
of Captain Picard's
Borg-altered DNA
into the transporter system.
BEVERLY:
Using the Changelings
to add this new
Borg DNA into everyone
who steps inside a transporter.
GEORDI:
They've been assimilated,
the entire fleet,
this whole time.
Collective, we have the Titan.
Raffi, get out of here.
Not a chance.
SEVEN OF NINE:
Captain?
You have the conn,
Seven of Nine.
GEORDI:
We need a ship.
Something older,
offline from the others.
PICARD:
I'm reluctant to ask you all
to face this threat again.
Jean-Luc,
wherever you go, we go.
BORG COLLECTIVE:
Eliminate planetary defenses.
PICARD:
Set a direct course for Earth.
Make it so.
[static beeping, crackling]
[high-pitched beep]
This is President Anton Chekov
of the United Federation
of Planets broadcasting
on all emergency channels.
Do not approach Earth.
A signal of unknown origin
has turned our young against us.
They have been assimilated
by the Borg.
Our fleet has been compromised
and as we speak,
our planetary defenses
are falling.
Sol Station is defending Earth
as best it can.
But we're almost out of time.
[panicked, indistinct chatter]
ANTON:
We have not been able
to find a way to stop
this Borg signal
and unassimilate our young.
But I know
if my father were here,
he'd remind us all that
hope is never lost.
There are always
possibilities.
Until then, I implore you:
- save yourselves.
- WOMAN: Mr. President,
we need to get you
to an escape pod.
ANTON:
Farewell.
The fleet has initiated an
attack formation against Earth.
Orbital weapon platforms have
been destroyed but Spacedock's
defenses appear
to be repelling the assault.
For now. Planetary shields
won't hold against the fleet.
Where the hell is the cavalry?
Emergency hails
from both Federation
and civilian ships
have now gone silent.
Apparently...
we are the cavalry.
The fleet is being controlled
by the Collective.
A hive mind with a single voice.
The Borg are here.
- Mr. Data.
- Scanning, Captain.
If Spacedock falls, there will
be nothing standing between
- an assimilated fleet and Earth.
- BEVERLY: If Earth falls,
everything falls.
Every planet, every system.
Long-range sensors are
picking up a Borg vessel...
- Jupiter, sir.
- Lay in the course.
- Maximum warp.
- Aye, Captain.
Engage.
♪
Where are they?
There.
Magnify.
They hid a transwarp conduit
inside the gases of Jupiter?
It appears to be broadcasting
the Collective.
PICARD:
Let's hear.
[indistinct Borg chatter]
Beverly, can you find him?
I'm trying.
JACK:
Eliminate all enemy
missiles on approach...
Jack.
It is confirmed.
Your son is the command signal.
The Borg must be amplifying
from somewhere on that cube.
Then the only way
to save the fleet--
to save Earth--
is to sever that connection.
No matter the cost.
What began over 35 years ago
ends tonight.
- Mr. La Forge, take us in.
- Aye, Captain.
♪
ESMAR:
Fire. Fire.
Fire.
Unsanctioned movement. Deck 5.
Eliminate all unassimilated.
[indistinct shouting]
Unsanctioned movement.
Turbo lift.
Bridge.
So did it work or did
we just kill 'em all?
COMPUTER:
Transporter Room One locked.
BORG COLLECTIVE:
Eliminate command structure.
Retake USS Titan.
They made it.
They're locked in there.
SEVEN OF NINE:
Good job routing
transporter fields
through phasers.
You may have just invented
the portable beam-me-up...
if we survive.
All right, you two,
seal the lift doors.
Lock us in here.
Everyone, stations.
Stations.
Ma'am, I-I'm just a cook.
I had lunar flight
class training,
but-but I didn't finish.
I was close, but my mom got sick
and I had to run the deli
back home because my brother
- had a hernia...
- You were a pilot.
That makes you our pilot.
You got this.
To your station.
Comms, open
that maintenance channel.
Open.
MAN:
They're taking down our shields.
- [indistinct chatter]
- We can't hold out any more...
Titanis still under
the control of the Collective.
We have to find a way
to disconnect this ship
from Fleet Formation
before they find out
that we took it back.
Somehow.
RIKER:
My God, look at that thing.
DATA:
The cube is only
36% operational.
Most of its resources
are being used
to broadcast to the hive mind.
Must be using
a beacon of some kind,
hidden inside its structure.
Deanna?
I've never felt
anything like this before.
It's like...
a quiet suffering.
DATA:
So much pain.
So much misery
inflicted on so many.
I hate them.
- Deanna, can you...
- Jack...
Jack is there.
But he's totally consumed
by the Collective.
What if he is
at a point of no return?
- No.
- Jack is in there.
And he's still Jack.
- [alert trilling]
- Sir, the cube has scanned us.
This is curious.
Shields are lowering
and weapons are redirecting.
What is this?
It's...
an invitation.
Somewhere on that cube
is a beacon,
projecting a signal across the
solar system to the Collective.
Our objective is clear.
Locate it and destroy it.
That will sever the connection
to the assimilated fleet.
Put an end to all of this.
Yeah, but locating it
is gonna be tough.
That beacon is so powerful
it's scrambling
our sensor arrays.
The-the only way to find it
is to beam down there,
access its systems directly.
What about Jack--
any life signs?
I've been looking.
This is all I'm getting.
Computer, isolate
life sign energy signatures
that mimic
human neural frequencies.
COMPUTER:
Electropathic pattern located.
BEVERLY:
There.
It is moving so fast,
but that's a human brain wave,
not Borg.
Maybe I can somehow use that
to narrow down Jack's location.
You're going down there.
I need you to lead me to him.
You brought him this far.
Let me bring him home.
You're not going alone.
And I will make it a threesome.
Do you even hear yourself?
Captain, you know I have
experience with the Borg.
- I should go.
- PICARD: Mr. Data,
we need you here.
There's no telling what
the cube is going to do next.
- Bu-But Captain...
- BEVERLY: Believe me, Data.
No one wants to tear them
limb from limb more than I do,
but right now we need
every advantage we can get,
and that means
having you on this ship.
PICARD:
Very well.
Number One, Mr. Worf,
once aboard the cube,
locate the beacon
and transmit its coordinates
back to the Enterprise.
Mr. La Forge.
- You have the bridge.
- Aye, sir.
[door whooshes open]
It's been an honor
serving with you all.
♪
No movement.
No sound.
A cube this size,
there should be
thousands of drones, armies.
You appear to be
oddly disappointed
- you're not outnumbered.
- Yeah, well,
I've never
found myself in a...
"too-quiet" situation
that ended
with a pleasant surprise.
You don't leave the doors open
if you want
to keep the wolves out.
Appears to be deceased.
WORF:
The necrotic tissue
is being cannibalized,
consumed.
But to sustain what?
Or whom.
This place is a tomb.
Which explains the almost
complete lack of bio-signs.
In the absence of one army,
what else would they do
but raise another?
Ours.
Crusher to Picard.
Jack's bio-signs are emanating
from a chamber
one level below you.
Past the Unimatrix array,
below the transporter platform.
How could you possibly
know that?
Given what we've learned,
it's entirely plausible
that some piece of you,
some small part
remains compatible
with the hive.
Which is how I know
that the time has come
for us to part ways.
I can no longer be your captain.
I now have to be... a father.
Go find the beacon.
Will, thank you.
I...
It means so much to me.
You know that I know.
Always.
Mr. Worf...
There are two turns of phrase
a Klingon
never admits to knowing.
Defeat...
...and farewell.
We should be going.
Beverly.
Lead me to our son.
I can lead you
to the next level,
but after that,
the interference increases,
and I'm unable
to be more specific
with Jack's location.
Jean-Luc, I...
Beverly,
you thought of Jack
from the beginning,
shielding him from danger.
You did everything right.
BEVERLY [cutting out]:
Jean-Luc? Jean-Luc?
Beverly.
You can... me.
Beverly? Do you read me?
[indistinct, rapid whispering]
Jack?
VOX: To the worlds
of the Federation, hear us.
Your biological and
technological distinctiveness
will contribute to the whole.
Your cultures will evolve
to serve the future.
Peace and prosperity will spread
across the galaxy.
You will be assimilated.
You will exist
in a universe without fear,
a universe without loss,
unbroken, perfect.
Those diseases are of the past.
- Jack? You hear me?
- Concentrate
all firepower.
Command.
- Fire, Fire, fire. Yeah.
- Jack, I'm here.
I'm here to take you...
[female laughing]
[laughing]
Home.
He is home.
[indistinct whispering]
You...
are home.
At last,
Locutus has returned...
to his true family,
to his Collective,
to me.
[alarms blaring]
Commander.
RAFFI:
There's a Federation ship
near a... a Borg cube.
Galaxy class,
registry number
NCC-1701-D.
The Enterprise.
It's Picard.
They're engaging the Borg.
Enterprise D?
What's left
of that thing is ancient.
It's not tied
to the new system, which means
it can't be controlled
like the rest of us.
All right, we need
to find a way to do the same.
If they're making a play to shut
down the Collective system,
we've got to buy as much time
as we can for 'em to do it.
So how can we break
from the automation?
Fleet Formation is using a kind
of line-of-sight propagation.
In other words...
If they can't see us,
they can't control us.
- On it.
- Tactical,
upload every prefix code
we have for the entire fleet.
- Scramble their shields.
- Uploading and transmitting now.
SEVEN OF NINE:
We can't fire while cloaked,
so we'll have to do this fast.
Us?
Against the entire fleet?
I'm not asking you
to give your lives for nothing.
I'm asking you to fight
for what's below.
Your families, your children.
The Borg have taken our crew,
taken our captain.
But in this moment,
here and now,
we are all
that is left of Starfleet.
It's up to us.
Cloaking device
on line, Captain.
Engage.
- What have you done to him?!
- What could I do?
- I have only my words.
- We are the future.
And the soft assurances
of a mother's love.
You are not his mother!
[laughing]
Until recently,
there was no Collective left.
There was only I.
It was an
unimaginable loneliness,
one which Jack and I share.
You're a liar, a deceiver.
You wormed your way
into his head.
He found me!
At the very edge of space,
where you left us, poisoned.
No worlds to consume,
no roads by which to return.
Just the cruelty to die
by starvation and age.
And then,
as the cries
of my children faded,
another voice rose.
Louder, clearer.
- Jack's voice.
- [indistinct whispering]
Let him go.
Take me.
I'm the one you want.
- Your equal.
- No.
I don't want you, Locutus.
The future
of the Borg does not lie in...
assimilation
but evolution.
[indistinct whispering]
[sensor beeping steadily]
[sensor beeping faster]
[beeping stops]
I believe this terminal
is a central access node.
Hope these Borg
have been too busy dying
to upgrade their codecs.
[tricorder trilling]
Accessing the cube's schematics
now. Worf to Enterprise.
Prepare for transmission
of the beacon's coordinates.
PICARD:
You're insane.
You consumed
what little Collective
you had left.
Only to sustain myself
long enough
to arrive at this moment,
to invite you here to witness.
Witness what?
Your future's
end.
SEVEN OF NINE:
Fire at will.
Fleet automation
is trying to reconnect
now that we're visible.
Recloak. Evasive maneuvers.
Weapons ready for another run.
There. Broadcast emitter.
Enterprise,
uploading the beacon's
information now.
PICARD:
So you
struck a deal with Vadic
and her Changelings
to be your weapons
across the galaxy.
They, too, shared the anger
of a generation
lost to Starfleet.
Together, we weaponized
your biology.
You've rewritten
our machine code
into genetic code.
We've no need
to devour raw materials,
consume flesh or metal,
not now that we can...
Reproduce. Procreate.
Propagate forever
out into the stars.
A new generation of Borg,
born with a single purpose:
not just to assimilate,
but to annihilate.
All.
BORG COLLECTIVE:
Retake command.
Eliminate all unassimilated.
Riker!
[grunting]
DATA:
The cube--
- it's opening fire.
- Evasive maneuvers.
Direct hits-- aft and starboard.
Shields at 68%.
We need to take out
those turrets
or this is gonna be over
real fast.
- [groans]
- Worf.
- The sword!
- Oh, shit.
[groans] I had no idea
it was that heavy.
The hilt!
- [groans]
- That was close.
They're using predictive
algorithms to find us.
It's working.
The fleet is redirecting
some of its resources
to locating us.
We can't do this forever.
Doctor, I didn't have time
to work on the weapons systems,
so you're gonna
have to do it manually.
Torpedoes away.
Locking phasers
and returning fire.
A lot's happened
in the last 20 years.
RIKER:
You had this in there
the whole time?
A phaser, and you didn't use it?
Swords are fun.
Riker to Enterprise.
You should have
the beacon schematics.
Receiving.
The good news is we have
a clear read on its position.
The bad news is
it's at the heart
of the cube itself.
GEORDI:
The only way
to take out the hive
is to take out that beacon,
but it's going to be impossible.
I mean, no computer,
not even my daughter could
navigate us through this.
Data, what the hell
are you doing?
I've got this, Geordi.
- Data, it's impossible.
- Data.
- Trust me.
- Data, I said no!
Statistically, probability?
Yes. It's nearly impossible.
But my...
[short chuckle]
My gut tells me I can do this.
- Your gut?
- Yes.
You've got to be sure, Data.
Please, everyone, just trust me.
All right.
We go with Data's gut.
Okay.
Here goes nothing.
Wait, what do you mean,
"nothing"?
Hang on!
Why am I sensing enjoyment?
MALE:
Mayday! Mayday!
Shields are down.
Planetary shields are down.
Spacedock has fallen.
There's nothing left
to defend Earth.
[alarm blaring]
RAFFI:
The fleet is targeting
every major city,
every population center
of the planet.
Come around
for another strafe run.
How the hell did they target us?
Our cloak-- it's gone.
The Titanis exposed.
Proceed to retake command.
VOX:
Continue targeting sequence.
- Jack. Jack.
- Concentrate fire on Sector 001.
- Fire on Sector 001.
- Hear me, please.
[Vox murmuring indistinctly]
[Picard grunts]
You'll kill him. Sever the link,
and you'll sentence his mind
to insurmountable,
unsurvivable shock.
Only he could choose
to leave now.
[grunts]
Jack.
BORG QUEEN:
He's too far gone.
[Vox speaks indistinctly]
Fire, fire, fire, fire.
We've taken a direct hit.
All systems non-responsive.
Commander, the Borg crew are
making their way to the bridge.
Without that cloak,
we're dead in the water.
BORG COLLECTIVE:
TheTitan has been neutralized.
We are the Borg.
Resistance is futile.
We've already won, Locutus.
Eliminate all unassimilated.
Target lock: Berlin.
Target lock: Cairo.
Target lock: Philadelphia.
Target lock: Rome.
Target lock: San Francisco.
Target lock: Paris.
- Target lock...
- [overlapping voices]
Target lock: New York.
BEVERLY:
There's the beacon.
- Preparing to fire.
- No, wait.
Data.
Data, are you seeing this?
Beacon is interfaced into the
very substructure of the ship.
Firing on it would trigger
a cataclysmic chain reaction.
We destroy the beacon...
...we destroy the cube itself.
And everyone on it.
BEVERLY:
No.
There must be another way.
Destroy the cube now,
and we kill everyone down there.
If we wait,
it's everyone else
in the galaxy.
Beverly?
Enterpriseto Riker.
Do you copy?
Every word, Geordi.
We have a lock on you
and Worf, but not Picard.
- Prepare to beam up.
- Belay that order.
I can't leave him.
Will, the moment we fire,
you'll have a minute
to get out, at most.
I owe him a lifetime. The least
I can spare is a minute.
I'll see you soon.
Riker out.
There was a moment today
where I was worried
we might actually survive.
We've lost their signal.
They've crossed
into the dead zone.
BORG QUEEN:
What are you doing?
I vowed never
to return to the Collective.
I've been running
for half of my life.
But not now.
Now I have something
to go back for.
Stop!
Jean-Luc!
[groans]
PICARD [echoing]:
I am Locutus...
Locutus. Locutus.
Of Borg... of Borg... Borg.
Resistance...
is futile. Is futile.
[distorted]:
Is futile.
Jack?
I can feel them.
All of them.
There are so many voices.
Joyful, welcoming me.
Nothing's broken in here.
There's no suffering.
No loneliness.
No fear.
[chuckles softly]
It's...
perfect.
But, Jack,
this euphoria isn't real.
Perfection isn't evolution.
This is death.
No, this is where
I'm meant to be.
I always have been.
You always felt different.
Hungry to connect while needing
to keep people distant
so they never see the real you.
[whispering voices]
I was the same.
I joined Starfleet
to find a family I didn't have.
And I found it.
I let them in.
But there was always a barrier.
I, too, thought there...
there was something
wrong with me,
and I waited.
Waited in that vineyard.
Waiting to die, alone.
But now, Jack, I realize...
...you are the part of me
that I never knew was missing.
No.
This was written
before my birth.
I am this. Just let me be.
[sighs]
I'm surrounded,
carried.
This...
is where I belong.
GEORDI:
We're out of time.
Let's just hope
they have a little left.
Doctor.
Target the beacon.
Fire torpedoes.
No.
Well, my friend,
is this good enough?
It is a fine day, indeed,
to die with honor.
- Data!
- Scanning for them now.
The shockwave is interfering
with our transport sensors.
I can't get a lock
on their signal.
Then if you won't leave,
I'll stay with you.
Till the end.
You have...
changed my life.
Forever.
♪
[gasps, groans]
I love you, Imzadi.
We'll be waiting.
Me and our boy.
I know where they are.
BORG QUEEN:
You were born here
and you will die here.
It's done.
The time of the Borg is over.
BORG QUEEN:
As are you.
Even if somehow you survived,
you'd be different, changed,
broken, alone.
No.
No, I am not alone.
♪
Aah!
BORG COLLECTIVE:
Command signal interrupted.
Continue last directive.
No!
♪
They did it.
Commander, I'm-I'm...
I'm sorry. I'm....
[gasps softly]
It's over.
[door whooshes open]
[Troi sighs]
Oh.
♪
[snoring]
Welcome to the Enterprise.
RIKER:
Captain's log, stardate...
shall we say one.
The first of a new day
for friends both old and young.
Starfleet has implemented a
fleet-wide transporter solution
to purge our young officers
of the Borg infection.
A world-saving effort developed
by our new head
of Starfleet Medical Branch--
Admiral Crusher,
who also managed
to spearhead technology
that privately scans
for other irregularities.
In constant need
for information,
our Changeling adversaries
kept yet did not kill
many of their targets.
From the lowest of ranks
to the very highest.
In light of their past
and present service,
the command crew
of the USS Enterprise
are receiving a full pardon
for commandeering--
better yet, hijacking--
this very ship...
with your help.
You disobeyed a direct order
from your captain.
As a result, Starfleet Command
has ordered me...
Let me make this easier for you.
Clearly, my judgement,
my instincts,
don't fall in line.
And that is why...
I'm resigning from Starfleet.
This was sent to Command
prior to you setting course
for the Ryton System.
Your officer review.
[scoffs]
That leads me to
First Officer Hansen.
More accurately, Seven of Nine.
[sighs]
Hell, I'm a relic
of an older time.
By the book.
By God, the book is boring.
Hansen is reckless.
She's unrelenting,
doesn't give a damn
about protocol or procedure.
[sighs]
However...
She's brave and loyal
and...
the book that she writes
is gonna be great.
And the rules
that she breaks...
[sighs]
...maybe they were broken
to begin with.
So, in light of that,
I have a recommendation:
promotion to captain
when we return to port.
Resignation denied,
Captain.
JAY:
You saved all of us.
I mean, Gabe is still in awe
of everything you've done.
I-- we-- we're eager
to see you again.
Right, honey?
Say hi to Grandma.
Sorry, Raff.
She's... she's a bit shy.
I have been told
tears are the body's weapon
against pain.
Having never wept...
...I hope yours to be happy.
The strangest thing.
My son Gabe wants me to meet
my granddaughter.
All the monitors
in his house suddenly
lit up at once.
Every news-wave
broadcast my face.
And every classified
valor commendation.
Whoever leaked this information
is an honorable maverick.
And a dear friend.
Be happy with your family,
Raffaella,
warrior
of the House of Musiker.
And you,
Worf, House of Martok,
continue to be a warrior
for peace.
TROI:
You've been through a lot,
most of which
was very traumatic.
Life, death, self-realization.
It's not unusual
to be overwhelmed
by those emotions.
Transition has been difficult.
Balance is...
[quick exhale]
...challenging.
Well...
you're almost there.
[gasps]
We've gone past our time
by over an hour.
Again.
It's fascinating, isn't it?
Sometimes I feel joyful.
Others...
melancholy.
Anxiety and ease.
Some anger.
I witnessed an ensign
feeding his cat the other day.
And I wept.
[sniffles]
It seems being human
is just as difficult
as the desire to be human.
And infinitely more complex
than I ever considered.
Oh, sorry, Counselor.
Same time tomorrow?
Yes, yes.
Can't wait.
How you feeling, Data?
Actually, Commander, I'm...
okay.
- He still batshit?
- Stop it.
[both laughing]
♪
PICARD: If ever
there was better evidence
that the past mattered...
...it's right here.
How many times has she managed
to save the world?
No doubt
more than the years will allow
three old men to remember.
You know,
it's difficult to imagine
what we all might have been
without her.
- Different, certainly.
- Mm.
But certainly not better.
[sighs]
Computer.
Initiate shutdown sequence.
COMPUTER:
Shutdown procedure initiated.
I miss that voice.
Take care of her, Geordi.
GEORDI:
Yes, sir.
After all, she's always
taken good care of us.
♪
MALE:
Admiral Picard, Admiral Crusher,
welcome to Spacedock.
I can't believe this.
You're actually nervous.
Please. I've run transports
through Tyrellian minefields,
I've had phaser-fights
with Orelex duelists.
I am not nervous.
Well, you're pacing nervously.
So did I
the day of my first posting.
I walked
a light-year in a circle
before I mustered
the courage to beam aboard.
- [chuckles]
- For Starfleet to put you
on such an accelerated track--
trust me, it's an honor.
- Or nepotism.
- [sighs]: Oh.
I think the family name
might've helped just a touch.
Uh, names mean almost nothing.
This is all you, son.
And...
I'm very proud.
[chuckles softly]
MALE:
Admirals, proceed to Pier 23.
Oh, Jack, you-you
never did tell me
the ship
to which they posted you.
Why do you think I'm so nervous?
It's not for me.
Admirals Picard and Crusher,
you're clear to enter
into port bay.
♪
PICARD:
Oh, yes, of course.
The Titan.
Mm, not quite.
At least...
not anymore.
BEVERLY:
You'll have to forgive
the subterfuge, Jean-Luc.
We just know
your aversion to fanfare.
JACK:
She's been rechristened
in honor of you and your crew.
Names mean almost everything.
Welcome to the Enterprise,
Admiral.
Helm, set a course for the
M'Talas System, maximum warp.
Tactical,
ready torpedoes and phasers.
I don't know
what we're walking into here.
SEVEN OF NINE:
Out.
It's just so cozy.
RAFFI:
Now, Ensign.
Thank you, Number One.
You're so very welcome, Captain.
Helm, it goes without saying
to ignore everything
he just said.
I usually do.
All right, this is a shakedown
cruise only, everyone.
Get ready for departure.
I still can't believe
Starfleet saw fit
to give a thief, a pirate
and a spy their own ship.
Bunch of ne'er-do-wells
and rule-breakers, really.
What could possibly go wrong?
All engines online.
Priming deflector shields
for warp.
So, Captain.
Where do you want me-- comms?
I speak 13 alien languages.
Tactical? I know
the ins and outs the universe's
most nefarious characters.
Or science?
Less so,
but I have scienced myself
out of some
pretty harrowing situations.
You'll be stationed here.
As special counselor
to the captain.
Sit.
Captain Seven,
we're cleared for warp.
On your command, Captain.
"Engage"? "Make it so"?
"Take her out"?
There's a long history of this.
Your first official
act of command.
Writing the opening line
to your legacy.
So then...
what'll it be?
RIKER:
I hate to say it,
but I think this is
the end of the road.
We closed this place down.
- Again.
- [Troi chuckles]
Guinan's been giving us the side
eye for the last half an hour.
TROI:
That's because a certain someone
has drained the bar
- of bloodwine, Doctor.
- Thank you.
Let's have some music.
- No!
- Oh, come on, Worf,
you have the most
adorable voice.
Have another glass
of prune juice.
Perhaps it is time
to call it a night.
I have a lecture on Mugato
meditation in the morning.
Too easy?
Actually, perhaps we should go.
Will and I have got
a lot of work to do.
It's exhausting,
organizing a whirlwind vacation.
We're torn between
the luminescent beaches
of Kaphar Prime
and Orlando.
Mm, tough choice.
All right, one final toast, huh?
Data?
- This one's yours.
- Oh.
[clears throat]
There was a young lady
from Venus...
ALL:
Data!
- I always wanted to finish that.
- [laughter]
Actually, I believe the honor
belongs to you, Captain.
- Ah.
- RIKER: Jean-Luc?
A toast?
"There is a tide
"in the affairs of men
"which taken at the flood,
"leads on to fortune.
"Omitted,
"all the voyage
of their life is bound
"in shallows and in miseries.
"On such a full sea
"are we now afloat.
"And we must take
"the current where it serves
or lose our ventures."”
- Hear, hear.
- ALL: Cheers.
We're grateful to have
ridden the tide with you.
- Hear, hear.
- ALL: Cheers.
- Cheers.
And, to that end...
- WORF: Oh...
- BEVERLY: Yes!
[exclaiming]
Yes!
Absolutely.
Couple of hands, right?
- Yes, please.
- GEORDI: Here we go.
RIKER:
Let's play.
[laughter, clamoring]
GEORDI:
Nothing from Jean-Luc.
Queen for the counselor.
- Lady for the lady.
- Tre.
Nine of spades,
another tre for the doctor.
DATA:
Okay, uh, 25.
- Oh. Okay.
- BEVERLY: Ooh.
- Uh-oh.
- He believes-he believes
he could have a pair.
- I see you, I see you.
- BEVERLY: I fold. I'm out.
- Worf?
- I fold.
- Okay?
- Seriously?
- TROI: With two cards?
- BEVERLY: Yeah. I...
- I'm gonna... Oh!
- TROI: Oh!
- [whoops]
- GEORDI: He's all in.
- BEVERLY: Wow. Okay.
- TROI: Right.
RIKER:
Ay-yai-yai.
I call you. That's for you.
- Let me see, let me see.
- Here we go. Oh.
Hope you're feeling lucky,
Jean-Luc.
You know, Will,
I've come to believe
that the stars have
always been in my favor.
[all groaning]
- TROI: Oh!
- GEORDI: Stop.
- Ouch. Well done.
- Aw.
- PICARD: Excuse me.
- [Beverly laughing]
- Here we go.
- GEORDI: All right.
- I'll take two.
- BEVERLY: I think we know
who's paying.
[laughing]
♪
GEORDI:
All right, let's play
Risa six cards.
TROI:
Whatever that is.
RIKER:
All right, here we go.
♪
- [laughing]
- [indistinct chatter]
♪
[indistinct announcement
over P.A.]
Well, look at you.
A chip off the old block.
Q, is that right?
Simple name.
For a complicated being.
My father told me all about you.
- I thought you were dead.
- Oh.
And here I was hoping
the next generation
wouldn't think so linearly.
Young mortal,
you have much ahead of you.
You told my father
that humanity's trial was over.
It is.
For him.
But I'm here today
because of you.
You see, yours,
Jack...
has just begun.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org